Release version 1 (#1)
sahabpardaz/java-styleguide: README.md

# Java Style Guide
This project contains all style guides used for Java language files.

## Code Style

> Our code style is based on [Google code style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html) with small customizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our code style is based on [Google code style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html) with a few customizations.
```

The exact customizations and the reason behind each one of them is described below.
To check code style on source codes we use [Checkstyle](https://checkstyle.sourceforge.io/). Currently, version 8.45.1 of 
Checkstyle is recommended.

> Fortunately, Checkstyle has defined all rules needed to check Google code style in a file in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, Checkstyle has defined most of the rules needed to check Google code style in a file in
```

> their [repo](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle/blob/master/src/main/resources/google_checks.xml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their [repo](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle).

This [file](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle/blob/master/src/main/resources/google_checks.xml) is our reference file
to check Google code style on our codes with some customizations.

### Customizations applied on reference file:
1. **Severity is changed to 'error' instead of 'warning':** Code style issues on our code base is treated as blocker issue
and no code with checkstyle issues is allowed to be merged.
2. **The column width is changed from 100 to 120:** Most of the monitors in our organization are enough wide to 
show 120 characters in a line without wrapping. Also, working with longer lines is easier and developers need

> to wrap their lines less often.

Reviewer: I rewrote this item this way:

Applying the column limit of 100 characters, there were many multiline statements in our code base. Working with a bit longer lines is easier and developers need to wrap their lines less often. Although we have another requirement in mind: we want to see a side-by-side diff view during code review process. In diff view, we do not want to have horizontal scrollbar or line breaks. We think 120 column width is a good choice. Now most monitors, support the resolution required to see two pages of 120 characters side-by-side.

Author: Done

> 3. **The indentation properties are all doubled:** We use 4 spaces to indent codes!

Reviewer: I rewrote this item this way:

That's not a big deal but historically we have a lot of code written with block indentation of 4 spaces, but the google suggests 2 spaces. We decided to stick to our old convention.

Author: Done

4. **MissingJavadocMethod rule is disabled:** This rule forces all developers to write javadoc for all public methods.

> As stated in Google code style, writing javadoc for self-explanatory or obvious methods is not needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but as stated in Google code style, writing Javadoc for self-explanatory or obvious methods is not needed.
```

write it as part of the previous statement.
also please change all occurrences of "javadoc" to "Javadoc"

Author: Done

> 5. **SummaryJavadoc rule is disabled:** Writing summary for all javadocs is not needed. Sometimes we want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **SummaryJavadoc rule is disabled:** Sometimes we want to
```

> only explain a parameter of a constructor or we want to just explain the thrown exceptions. Forcing developers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only explain an input argument of a method or we want to just explain the thrown exceptions. Forcing developers
```

> to write summary for all of javadocs will move their focus from important points to the writing a summary to pass the checkstyle. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to write summary for all of javadocs will move their focus from important points to writing a summary to pass the checkstyle. 
```

> 6. **AvoidUnusedImports ruls is added:** Although this is not part of the Google Checkstyle, it has been added because it is useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. **AvoidUnusedImports ruls is added:** Although this is not part of the Google Checkstyle, it has been added because it cleans the header of Java files by removing misleading references.
```
